OP:
Hey ladies, wondering if I could get some advice on salary negotiation? Apologies in advance if this is in the wrong area.

I am currently struggling with my feelings on my offer as I am a junior developer (hello, imposter syndrome) in an all-male small startup, and found out that my co-worker (a classmate of mine from Prime Academy) was offered quite a bite more per hour than me. He does seem to be grasping things better than I am currently, so I know that plays into it a bit, but I think the wage gap is unfair. I know there are a variety of factors that play into this, but I am still new to the industry and don't want to be low-balled when it comes to my compensation.

Wondering if there are any other female junior developers out there who struggled with salary and imposter syndrome, maybe compounded by being the only female in an all-male environment? Not sure if my ego is getting in the way, or if I am being unfairly compensated, even though I still have much to learn.

Thanks in advance! Any advice is helpful :slightly_smiling_face:

-----

R1:
@OP: Do you know if there are any other major factors that might have played into his salary offer - like, does he have an advanced degree (before going to prime)? Honestly, though, either way, it seems unfair.

You mention that you feel he may be grasping things more quickly than you, but two things to consider:

1) he may not actually be — men are much more socialized to bluster their way through situations and women are also often way more cautious (like if they don’t understand things 100% they feel they don’t understand it, but men hit 60-70% and are like, “yeah, I got this”). I used to be a professor and also to give mock oral exams for younger grad students and I’ve seen this pattern play out over and over. The guys in the physics lab who acted like it was so easy often did noticeably worse than a a group of girls who expressed feeling very unsure about their work. (when the girls were actually doing A-level work and the guys C level work)

2) even if you do take a little longer to pick up a concept (which certainly does not mean you aren’t an awesome developer) would they have had any insight into this when they made you the offer? It sounds like you’re comparing your work to your perception of his after joining this company — by then, they had already made you a bad offer that couldn’t possibly have accounted for any differences in performance. If that’s the case, then whatever your performance versus his at this current point in time, there is sexism underlying the wage gap between you.

-----

R1: It means so much that you took the time to write out this awesome response. Thank you. I needed an outside perspective of things just to make sure I'm not going crazy, and this helps me a lot. After reading this, and after having a conversation with my leadership team, I am going to reach out and ask them for a higher compensation. I also talked with them about how the culture could be improved, and they seemed to respond well and take it very seriously, and starting immediately I am now the lead for creating a better culture/community at the office with their full support. Fingers crossed everything will work out here. Thanks again for your insights, they are invaluable!

Oh good! Kudos on talking to your leadership team and glad to hear they seem to be taking it seriously! Hopefully they keep it up :slightly_smiling_face: Good luck, and I hope you get the raise you deserve!

I would also add that in my experience so far, working in tech you will (and should) always be feeling like you’re needing to pick stuff up. Stuff changes fast in this field and literally no one can learn it all. I always like to say that anyone who acts like they know everything has actually just stagnated. So, my point for you is, if you wait until the time when you feel like you’ve learned all the things and feel confident in them to ask for a raise, you will never ask for a raise. And that would be an injustice to you. Some part of working your way forward in tech (and up in salary) is just acknowledging that perhaps very real feeling of not being expert enough and setting it aside while you then go and advocate for yourself.

Good luck!
